[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Celebrating 25 years of
rovers on Mars and looking
forward to the next chapter
of Mars exploration,
which may include excavating
deep into the red planet--
this is a Gaia News Breakdown.
July 1997, NASA's
Mars Pathfinder
landed on the red planet
and began its mission
to demonstrate how a robotic
rover would land on the planet.
Using an innovative
design, the rover
landed on Mars with a parachute
and a series of giant air bags
to cushion its blow.
The Carl Sagan Memorial
Station and the Sojourner Rover
outlived their
projected lifespan,
and in the years following,
sent back to Earth
magnificent images.
The lander returned more than
16,500 images and the rover
sent back 550, as well as
chemical analysis of rocks,
soil, and data on
wind and weather.
The final transmission
from the Mars Pathfinder
was on September 27,
1997, but the data
it provided help
scientists to conclude Mars
was once wet and warm.
And rounded rocks on
the surface indicate
they may have been worn
down by running water.
And if there was water,
there could have been life.
Flash forward to today,
NASA's Perseverance Rover,
on the red planet
since February of 2021,
is tasked with finding
past or present life
and seeing if humans could one
day explore or colonize Mars.
Perseverance is
collecting samples
to determine if they contain
any fossils of ancient Martians.
But a new study, led by
Alexander Pavlov, a space
scientist at NASA, says they
might have to dig a lot deeper.
Pavlov argues that amino acids
could be the best evidence
of any past life on Mars.
But after millions of
years of radiation,
all those amino
acids on the surface
would have been
destroyed, writing, quote,
"Our experimental
results suggest
serious challenges for the
search of ancient amino acids
and other potential organic
biosignatures in the top 2
meters of the Martian surface,"
2 meters, or roughly 7 feet.
But Perseverance can
only dig a few inches.
However, Pavlov told
vicenews.com, quote,
"Microcraters are
common on Mars.
Small impactors
can excavate rocks
from several meters of death.
Cosmic rays are significantly
reduced by 2-meter depth
into a rock and do not
penetrate at all below 4 meters.
Therefore, and ejecta
from such depths
would have small exposure
time to cosmic rays, and thus
may contain the primordial,
unaltered amino acids
from billions of years ago."
25 years of humans studying
the surface of Mars
and we have learned so much.
But as Pavlov
concluded in his study,
we have only scratched the
surface of this problem.
But with every problem
comes the opportunity
to figure out a solution.
And perhaps this will
help us find life on Mars.
For a new perspective, this
is a Gaia News Breakdown.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.